[Page 1]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

1.0 Executive Summary
This document is the fourth issued by the International Medical Device Regulatory Forum
(IMDRF) that provides a path for global regulators to converge on terminology, a risk-based
framework, an understanding of quality management system principles, and in this document, an
approach to making Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) clinically meaningful to users1. This
document focuses on the activities needed to clinically evaluate SaMD -- and relies on the reader
to gain knowledge from the previous documents as a pre-requisite to this document.
This document, and previous documents, provides harmonized principles for individual
jurisdictions to adopt based on their own regulatory framework. They are not regulations.
This document describes a converged approach for planning the process for clinical evaluation of
a SaMD (software with a medical purpose as defined in SaMD N10[1]2), as illustrated in Figure 1,
to establish that:
 There is a valid clinical association between the output of a SaMD and the targeted
clinical condition (to include pathological process or state); and
 That the SaMD provides the expected technical and clinical data.
Clinical Evaluation
Analytical Validation Clinical Validation
Valid Clinical Association
Does use of your SaMD’s
Is there a valid clinical
Does your SaMD correctly
accurate, reliable, and precise
association between your
process input data to generate
output data achieve your intended
SaMD output and your
accurate, reliable, and precise
purpose in your target population
SaMD’s targeted clinical
output data?
in the context of clinical care?
condition?
Figure 1 - Clinical Evaluation Process
The knowledge gained from previous documents is critical to the understanding of information
in this document. This document builds on previously introduced vocabulary, risk-based
considerations, and SaMD lifecycle processes and activities to help emphasize the clinical
considerations essential to the success and adoption of SaMD as illustrated in Figure 2.
1 Users include patients, healthcare providers, specialized professionals, lay users, consumers.
2 Internet addresses (URLs) can be found in the References section.
21 September 2017

[Page 2]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

Figure 2- SaMD Landscape
21 September 2017

[Page 3]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

2.0 Background
The IMDRF has acknowledged that software is an increasingly critical area of healthcare product
development and has developed a series of documents concerning the definition, the
categorization, and the application of quality systems principles of SaMD.
In 2013, IMDRF’s SaMD Working Group released SaMD N10[1] Software as a Medical Device
(SaMD): Key Definitions to create a standard terminology for SaMD. The following year,
IMDRF adopted SaMD N12[2] Software as a Medical Device: Possible Framework for Risk
Categorization and Corresponding Considerations which proposes a method for categorizing
SaMD based on the seriousness of the condition the SaMD is intended to address. In 2015, the
SaMD Working Group published SaMD N23[3] Software as a Medical Device (SaMD):
Application of Quality Management System, outlining how manufacturers should follow Quality
Management System (QMS) Principles for medical devices as well as good software engineering
practices.
Knowledge of the previous three IMDRF SaMD documents is a prerequisite for readers of this
document.
This document, and previous documents, provides harmonized principles for individual
jurisdictions to adopt based on their own regulatory framework. They are not regulations.
The goal, strategy, principles and concepts, and implementation pathway for a harmonized
SaMD framework are illustrated below in Figure 3.
Figure 3 - SaMD Regulatory Pathway
21 September 2017

[Page 4]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

3.0 Introduction
The International Medical Device Regulators Forum (IMDRF) seeks to establish a common and
converged understanding of clinical evaluation and principles for demonstrating the safety,
effectiveness and performance of SaMD.
As illustrated in Figure 4, this document represents a global harmonization effort to articulate
this process.
Clinical Evaluation
Valid Clinical Association Analytical Validation Clinical Validation
Does use of your SaMD’s
Is there a valid clinical
Does your SaMD correctly
accurate, reliable, and precise
association between your
process input data to generate
output data achieve your intended
SaMD output and your
accurate, reliable, and precise
purpose in your target population
SaMD’s targeted clinical
output data?
in the context of clinical care?
condition?
Figure 4- Clinical Evaluation Process
The document further explains that:
 Clinical evaluation should be an iterative and continuous process as part of the quality
management system for medical devices (See SaMD N23[3] for more information);
 Certain SaMD may require independent review of the results of the clinical evaluation,
akin to peer review or design review, to ensure that the SaMD is clinically meaningful to
users. The level of evaluation and independent review should be commensurate with the
risk posed by the specific SaMD (See SaMD N12[2] for more information); and
 Software is unique in its level of connectivity, which may allow the continuous
monitoring of the safety, effectiveness, and performance of SaMD. This document
encourages manufacturers to use this feature to understand and modify software based
on real-world performance. (See 9.0 Pathway for Continuous Learning Leveraging Real
World Performance Data for more information).
Healthcare decisions increasingly rely on information provided by the output of SaMD where
these decisions can impact clinical outcomes and patient care. As such, global regulators expect
that performance metrics for a SaMD have a scientific level of rigor that is commensurate with
the risk and impact of the SaMD to demonstrate assurance of safety, effectiveness, and
performance.
21 September 2017

[Page 5]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

4.0 Scope
This document focuses on the activities needed to clinically evaluate SaMD -- and relies on the
reader to gain knowledge from the previous documents as a pre-requisite to this document.
Specifically, this document:
 Expects readers to have knowledge of the vocabulary, approach, and common thinking
of previous IMDRF SaMD documents;
 Expects readers to understand that the concepts are limited to SaMD, as defined in
SaMD N10[1], which focuses on software with a medical purpose; and
 Refers to – and paraphrases as needed -- previous Global Harmonization Task Force
(GHTF3) and IMDRF documents that provide a common understanding and application
of terminology, concepts and principles for a clinical evaluation that demonstrates the
performance metrics of a SaMD.
This document does NOT exhaustively address all regulatory requirements relevant to SaMD,
which may vary by jurisdiction (e.g., informed consent, pre-market regulatory review). In
addition, this document does not repeat the following concepts from previous SaMD documents:
 The definition of a SaMD (SaMD N10[1]);
 Examples of SaMD (SaMD N12[2]);
 Where a SaMD fits in the risk categorization and the descriptions of the risk categories
(SaMD N12[2]); and
 Which Quality Management principles are appropriate for SaMD (SaMD N23[3]).
3 GHTF was a voluntary group of representatives from national medical device regulatory authorities and industry
representatives. GHTF was disbanded in 2012 and its mission has been taken over by the IMDRF.
21 September 2017

[Page 6]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

5.0 Definitions
5.1 Clinical Evaluation of a SaMD
For purposes of this document “Clinical evaluation of a
Clinical Evaluation
SaMD” is defined as a set of ongoing activities
conducted in the assessment and analysis of a SaMD’s
The assessment and analysis of clinical
clinical safety, effectiveness and performance as intended data pertaining to a medical device to
by the manufacturer in the SaMD’s definition statement. verify the clinical safety, performance
and effectiveness of the device when
This definition is consistent with prior SaMD documents used as intended by the manufacturer.
and is adapted from GHTF SG5 N2R8:2007[8].
Figure 5- Clinical Evaluation
Clinical Evaluation see GHTF SG5 N2R8:2007[8]
5.2 Valid Clinical Association of a SaMD
For purposes of this document, valid clinical association, Valid Clinical Association
also known as scientific validity, is used to refer to the
Is there a valid clinical association
extent to which the SaMD’s output (concept, conclusion,
between your SaMD output and your
measurements) is clinically accepted or well-founded SaMD’s targeted clinical condition?
(based on an established scientific framework or body of
evidence4), and corresponds accurately in the real world
Figure 6- Valid Clinical Association
to the healthcare situation and condition identified in the
SaMD definition statement.
A valid clinical association is an indicator of the level of clinical acceptance and how much
meaning and confidence can be assigned to the clinical significance of the SaMD’s output in the
intended healthcare situation and the clinical condition/physiological state. 5
SaMD Definition Statement see Section 6.0 in SaMD N12[2]
SaMD Clinical Considerations see Section 9.1 in SaMD N12[2]
5.3 Analytical / Technical Validation of a SaMD
Analytical validation measures the ability of a SaMD to
Analytical Validation
accurately, reliably and precisely generate the intended
technical output from the input data. Said differently, Does your SaMD correctly process
analytical validation: input data to generate accurate, reliable,
and precise output data?
 Confirms and provides objective evidence that
Figure 7-Analytical Validation
4 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3261486/
5 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2993536/
21 September 2017

[Page 7]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

the software was correctly constructed – namely, correctly and reliably processes input
data and generates output data with the appropriate level of accuracy, and repeatability
and reproducibility (i.e., precision); and
 Demonstrates that (a) the software meets its specifications and (b) the software
specifications conform to user needs and intended uses.
The analytical validation is generally evaluated and determined by the manufacturer during the
verification and validation phase of the software development lifecycle using a QMS.
Analytical validation is necessary for any SaMD.
SaMD Verification and Validation see Section 8.4 in SaMD N23[3]
5.4 Clinical Validation of a SaMD
Clinical Validation
Clinical validation measures the ability of a SaMD to yield
a clinically meaningful output associated to the target use Does use of your SaMD’s accurate,
reliable, and precise output data
of SaMD output in the target health care situation or
achieve your intended purpose in
condition identified in the SaMD definition statement.
your target population in the
Clinically meaningful means the positive impact of a context of clinical care?
SaMD on the health of an individual or population, to be Figure 8-Clinical Validation
specified as meaningful, measurable, patient-relevant
clinical outcome(s), including outcome(s) related to the function of the SaMD (e.g., diagnosis,
treatment, prediction of risk, prediction of treatment response), or a positive impact on individual
or public health.
Clinical validity is evaluated and determined by the manufacturer during the development of a
SaMD before it is distributed for use (pre-market) and after distribution while the SaMD is in use
(post-market).
Clinical validation of a SaMD can also be viewed as the relationship between the verification
and validation results of the SaMD algorithm and the clinical conditions of interest. Clinical
validation is a necessary component of clinical evaluation for all SaMD and can be demonstrated
by either:
 Referencing existing data from studies conducted for the same intended use;
 Referencing existing data from studies conducted for a different intended use, where
extrapolation of such data can be justified; or
 Generating new clinical data for a specific intended use.
Clinical validation is necessary for any SaMD.
SaMD Verification and Validation see Section 8.4 in SaMD N23[3]
21 September 2017

[Page 8]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

6.0 General Principles and Context of SaMD Clinical Evaluation Process
A SaMD can best be described as software that utilizes an algorithm (logic, set of rules, or
model) that operates on data input (digitized content) to produce an output that is intended for
medical purposes as defined by the SaMD manufacturer (Figure 9). The risks and benefits posed
by SaMD outputs are largely related to the risk of inaccurate or incorrect output of the SaMD,
which may impact the clinical management of a patient.
SaMD Algorithm
SaMD inputs SaMD outputs
Algorithm, Inference
engine,
Patient data
Equations, SaMD defined
(Lab results, Image Analysis engine outputs
medical device data, Model based logic, etc. (Inform, Drive,
Physiological status, Diagnose, Treat)
Symptoms, etc.)
Reference data,
Knowledge base,
Rules,
Criteria, etc.
Figure 9 - SaMD Basic Programming Model
6.1 SaMD Definition Statement and SaMD Category
The SaMD definition statement, as defined in SaMD N12[2], is used by the SaMD manufacturer
to identify the intended medical purpose of the SaMD (treat, diagnose, drive clinical
management, inform clinical management), to state the healthcare situation or condition that the
SaMD is intended for (critical, serious, non-serious), and to describe the core functionality of the
SaMD.
The SaMD manufacturer will use the factors identified in the SaMD definition statement to
determine the category of a SaMD in the SaMD categorization framework as illustrated in Figure
10.
Significance of information provided by SaMD to the healthcare decision
State of Healthcare
Drive Clinical Inform Clinical
Situation or Condition Treat or Diagnose
Management Management
Critical IV III II
Serious III II I
Non-Serious II I I
Figure 10 - SaMD N12[2] Framework
SaMD Definition Statement see Section 6.0 in SaMD N12[2]
SaMD Risk Categorization Framework see Section 7.0 in SaMD N12[2]
21 September 2017

[Page 9]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

6.2 Clinical Evaluation Processes
A SaMD manufacturer is expected to implement on-going lifecycle processes to thoroughly
evaluate the product’s performance in its intended market. As part of normal new product
introduction processes, prior to product launch (pre-market) the manufacturer generates evidence
of the product’s accuracy, specificity, sensitivity, reliability, limitations, and scope of use in the
intended use environment with the intended user, and generates a SaMD definition statement.
Once the product is on the market (post-market), as part of normal lifecycle management
processes, the manufacturer continues to collect real world performance data (e.g., complaints,
safety data), to further understand the customer’s needs to ensure the product is meeting those
needs, and to monitor the product’s continued safety, effectiveness and performance in real-
world use. This real world performance data allows the manufacturer to identify and correct any
problems, support future expansions in functionality, meet anticipated user demands, or improve
the effectiveness of the device.
Product lifecycle activities, which include clinical evaluation activities as illustrated in Figure 11,
should follow
appropriate
planning processes
as part of an
organization’s
lifecycle activities
and processes, as
described in SaMD
N23[3].
Risk assessment
done as part of the
SaMD’s lifecycle
activities and
processes should
also be considered
when conducting
clinical evaluation.
Figure 11 - SaMD Clinical Evaluation Landscape
Pre-market see GHTF Study Group 1 documents[4]
Post-market see GHTF Study Group 2 documents[5]
SaMD Considerations for Risk Management see Section 7.2 in SaMD N23[3]
SaMD User Needs Intended Use see Section 8.3 of SaMD N23[3]
SaMD Clinical Evidence see Section 8.4 in SaMD N23[3]
21 September 2017

[Page 10]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

7.0 SaMD Clinical Evaluation Process Flow Chart
Clinical evaluation is a systematic and planned process to continuously generate, collect,
analyze, and assess the clinical data6 pertaining to a SaMD in order to generate clinical evidence
verifying the clinical association and the performance metrics of a SaMD when used as intended
by the manufacturer. The quality and breadth of the clinical evaluation is determined by the role
of the SaMD for the target clinical condition, and assures that the output of the SaMD is
clinically valid and can be used reliably and predictably.
This section uses simple steps to help SaMD manufacturers through the approach to generating
evidence for the clinical evaluation of a SaMD and provides links to techniques, definitions and
sources that are available to help a SaMD manufacturer generate appropriate evidence.
Note: The examples used are not intended to be comprehensive. All data sources and statistical
methods should be tailored to the specific SaMD and its intended use.
Clinical Evaluation
① Valid Clinical Association ② Analytical Validation ③ Clinical Validation
Does use of your SaMD’s
Is there a valid clinical
Does your SaMD correctly
accurate, reliable, and precise
association between your
process input data to generate
output data achieve your intended
SaMD output and your
accurate, reliable, and precise
purpose in your target population
SaMD’s targeted clinical
output data?
in the context of clinical care?
condition?
Figure 12 - Clinical Evaluation
① Valid Clinical Association:
Examples of existing evidence
Is there a valid clinical association between
 Literature searches
your SaMD output, based on the inputs and
 Original clinical research
algorithms selected, and your SaMD’s
 Professional society guidelines
targeted clinical condition?
Examples of generating new evidence
Step 1: Verify that the association between
 Secondary data analysis
the SaMD output and the targeted clinical
 Perform clinical trials
condition is supported by evidence.
Note: All SaMD should demonstrate a valid clinical association.
Question: How do I “generate evidence”?
You can verify by using existing evidence or you can verify by generating new evidence.
6 Clinical data is defined as safety and/or performance information that are generated from the clinical use of a
medical device. Source: GHTF SG5 N1R8:2007[7]
21 September 2017

[Page 11]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

② Analytical Validation:
Does your SaMD meet technical
requirements? Verification – confirmation through
provision of objective evidence that
Step 1: Generate evidence that shows that
specified requirements have been fulfilled.
the output of your SaMD is technically
Source: GHTF SG3 N18:2010[6] Section 2.7
what you expected.
Note: All SaMD should demonstrate Validation – confirmation through
analytical validation. provision of objective evidence that the
requirements for a specific intended use or
Question: How do I “generate
application have been fulfilled. Source:
evidence”?
GHTF SG3 N18:2010[6] Section 2.8
You can generate evidence during
verification and validation activities as part of your quality management system or as part of
your good software engineering practices, or by generating new evidence through use of curated
databases or use of previously collected patient data.
③ Clinical Validation:
Does your SaMD generate clinically
Examples of measures of clinical validation
relevant outputs?
 Sensitivity
Step 1: Generate evidence that shows
 Specificity
your:
 Positive predictive value (PPV)
 SaMD has been tested in your  Negative predictive value (NPV)
target population and for your
 Number needed to treat (NNT)
intended use; and that
 Number needed to harm (NNH)
 Users can achieve clinically
 Likelihood ratio negative (LR-)
meaningful outcomes through
 Likelihood ratio positive (LR+)
predictable and reliable use.
 Odds ratio (OR)
Note: All SaMD should demonstrate
 Clinical usability / User Interface
clinical validation.
 Confidence interval
Question: How do I “generate evidence”?
You can generate evidence to validate clinical significance during verification and validation
activities as part of your quality management system or as part of your good software
engineering practices, referencing existing data sources from studies conducted for the same
intended use. Where available data references studies conducted for a different intended use,
extrapolation or generation of new clinical data may be required.
21 September 2017

[Page 12]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

7.1 Considerations for Generating and Assessing Evidence
Being able to generate evidence to demonstrate the valid clinical association, analytical
validation and clinical validation of a SaMD is essential to establishing the SaMD’s value for
users. The degree of evidence generation needed for a given SaMD will depend on parameters
including but not necessarily limited to the:
 Maturity of evidence underlying the clinical association; and
 Confidence in the evidence, as applied to a specific SaMD.
The purpose of the assessment of the evidence is to select information based on its merits and
limitations to demonstrate that the clinical evaluation evidence is high-quality, relevant, and
supportive of the SaMD intended use.
For example, an assessment of clinical association would classify a SaMD as having either a:
a) Well-established clinical association: These SaMD have outputs with well-documented
association as identified in sources such as clinical guidelines, clinical studies in peer
reviewed journals, consensus for the use of the SaMD, international reference materials
or other similar well-established comparators in terms of previously marketed devices /
SaMD; or a
b) Novel clinical association: These SaMD may involve new inputs, algorithms or outputs,
new intended target population, or new intended use. An example may include the
combination of non-standard inputs such as mood or pollen count, with standard inputs
such as gait, blood pressure or other physiological and environmental signals using novel
algorithms to detect early onset of a deterioration of health or diagnosis of a disease.
What if I can’t generate evidence to demonstrate ①, ②, or ③?
 Perform ongoing data analysis
 Modify your intended use to one that can be supported by available evidence
 Modify the target clinical association
 Make changes to the software
21 September 2017

[Page 13]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

8.0 Importance of Independent Review of a SaMD’s Clinical Evaluation
SaMD categories are based on the levels of impact on the patient or public health where accurate
information provided by the SaMD is important to treat or diagnose, drive clinical management
or inform clinical management. For additional information on SaMD categorization, please see
Section 7.0 in SaMD N12[2]. As part of the risk-based approach, and subject to individual
jurisdiction’s laws, independent review of clinical evidence of certain low-risk SaMD may be
less important and the manufacturer may ‘self-declare’ the appropriateness of the evidence.
Again, subject to individual jurisdiction’s laws, independent review of clinical evidence of more
high-risk SaMD is more important in providing users the confidence in the SaMD’s performance
metrics, including but not limited to, identification of design errors or limitation, broadening
technical competence, testing the appropriateness of assumptions, and management of bias.
The recommendation for independent review highlights where the evidence generated from the
clinical evaluation of the SaMD should be reviewed by someone who has not been significantly
involved in the development of the SaMD, and who does not have anything to gain from the
SaMD, and who can objectively assess the SaMD’s intended purpose and the conformity with
the overall clinical evaluation evidence. The level of clinical evaluation and importance of
independent review should be commensurate with the risk posed by the SaMD. This document
recommends where independent review is more or less important.
Figure 13 - Risk Based Approach to Importance of Independent Review
Figure 13 illustrates where independent review is more or less important. In the figure, the red,
vertical dividing line differentiates where independent review is less important and where
independent review is more important for different SaMD categories. Independent review is
more important for SaMD that ‘Treats/Diagnoses Serious and Critical’ health care situations and
21 September 2017

[Page 14]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

conditions and SaMD that ‘Drives Critical’ health care situations and conditions. Independent
review in this document does not necessarily imply regulatory review but instead demonstrates
the concept where independence in review of the results is important.
For purposes of this document ‘less important’ independent review is analogous to the concept of
design review performed in the QMS system. Less important independent reviews can be
conducted by individuals within the company or by utilizing outside experts.
For purposes of this document ‘more important’ independent review may be conducted by
outside experts such as formal consultation with regulators, third parties on behalf of regulators,
or the editorial board of a peer-reviewed journal, but may also be conducted by “non-conflicted”
internal expert reviewers without significant involvement in the development of the SaMD.
21 September 2017

[Page 15]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

9.0 Pathway for Continuous Learning Leveraging Real World Performance
Data
SaMD may leverage connectivity between devices, and people to continuously monitor the
safety, effectiveness and performance of the SaMD.
A SaMD manufacturer may have a hypothesis about future functionality and intended use of a
SaMD that may be informed by continuously collecting and analyzing data on use of the SaMD
in a post-market setting. Monitoring real world performance data can help the SaMD
functionality and intended use evolve after initial introduction into the market. Such data may
include post-market information such as safety data, results from performance studies, on-going
clinical evidence generation for medical devices, new research publications / results that support
or strengthen the clinical association of the SaMD output to a clinical condition, or direct end-
user feedback, that can help the SaMD manufacturer understand the real world performance of
the SaMD. This may lead to a change to the SaMD definition statement if supported by the
clinical evidence generated through clinical evaluation leveraging real world performance data
from the continuous monitoring as illustrated in Figure 14.
Figure 14 - Pathway for Continuous Learning - Use of Real World SaMD Performance Data in Ongoing SaMD Clinical
Evaluation
Learning may impact the original category of a SaMD in the following ways:
 Real world performance data may provide evidence that the analytical or clinical validity
of a SaMD is superior to the performance measures initially evaluated by the SaMD
manufacturer, or
21 September 2017

[Page 16]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

 Real world performance data may provide evidence that analytical or clinical validity of a
SaMD is inferior to the performance measures initially evaluated by the SaMD
manufacturer.
As additional clinical evidence is gathered to confirm the hypothesis and create and support new
intended use, the SaMD manufacturer will update the clinical evaluation and generate a new
definition statement. Then the cycle repeats.
This document encourages SaMD manufacturers to leverage SaMD’s capability to capture real-
world performance data to understand user interactions with the SaMD, and conduct ongoing
monitoring of analytical and technical performance to support future intended uses.
9.1 Considerations for Continuous Learning Leveraging Real World Performance Data
 SaMD should facilitate post-market information gathering to allow for disablement of
existing or enablement of new functionality within the SaMD.
 It is not necessary for the collection of real world performance data by the SaMD
manufacturer to rely on the active involvement of the end user. The SaMD manufacturer
should aim to impose the least burdensome approach possible in its data collection and
leverage the capability of SaMD to collect clinical evidence.
 With ongoing clinical evaluation the risk categorisation may potentially change,
necessitating a change in the SaMD definition statement.
Figure 15 - Change to SaMD category from continuous learning
 Real world performance data including post-market information may not be sufficient to
generate complete clinical evidence necessary for a change to the SaMD definition
statement; as such the SaMD manufacturer should appropriately take into account other
clinical evaluation steps required to support the change in SaMD definition statement.
21 September 2017

[Page 17]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

 During the continuous learning across the life cycle, SaMD manufacturers should
consider the recommendations in the previous section on independent review when new
information changes the category of the SaMD as illustrated in Figure 15.
 The “continuous learning” referred to here is not “machine learning software” (i.e., where
software device keeps learning automatically after it has been released into the market);
rather it refers to collecting post-market information.
 Manufacturers should appropriately review the post-market information collected to
determine if there are any changes to the safety, effectiveness or performance, or possible
impact on benefits and risks of the SaMD that would indicate a need for a design change
or a labeling change regarding contraindications, warnings, precautions or instructions for
use. The labeling should identify limitations of the SaMD relevant to its clinical
performance and interpretation of its output in a way that is understood by end users. The
assessment of post-market information may also lead to a change of intended use (e.g.,
expansion, modification, or restriction).
NOTE: A change to the SaMD definition statement may be subject to regulatory requirements in
the individual jurisdiction and a SaMD manufacturer should consult with the regulatory
authorities in their jurisdiction.
SaMD Software Changes see Section 7.5 in SaMD N23[3]
SaMD Continuous Improvement see Section 7.5 in SaMD N23[3]
Medical Devices Post Market see GHTF SG3 N79R11:2009[15]
Medical Devices Observation Studies see Section 6.1 in GHTF SG5 N8:2012[16]
21 September 2017

[Page 18]
IMDRF/SaMD WG/N41FINAL:2017

Appendix – Comparison of SaMD Clinical Evaluation Process to Process for
Generating Clinical Evidence for IVD Medical Devices in GHTF/SG5/N7:2012 [13]
Analogous to
SaMD Valid
Clinical
Association
Analogous to
SaMD Analytical
Validation
Analogous to
SaMD Clinical
Validation
21 September 2017